# lua-xmlreader

Provides the [XmlReader 
API](http://dotgnu.org/pnetlib-doc/System/Xml/XmlReader.html)
to Lua applications using [LibXML2](http://xmlsoft.org).  `XmlReader` is an 
API introduced in C# that is arguably easier to use than SAX.  It provides a 
pull interface where you control the reader, which is a cursor moving along 
the document. Call methods such as `reader:name()` to get information about 
the current node and `reader:read()` to advance to the next.  This has the 
advantage versus a tree model such as DOM that the whole document does not 
need to be loaded into memory at once. The many articles and tutorials 
available online referring to XmlReader/XmlTextReader in C#, Java or other 
languages should all be useful if you want to better understand this method of 
handling XML. `lua-xmlreader` depends on the libxml2 library.

## Project links
* [Download](http://luaforge.net/projects/lua-xmlreader/)
* [Documentation](http://asbradbury.org/projects/lua-xmlreader/doc/)
* [Source](http://github.com/asb/lua-xmlreader/)

## Release history
* lua-xmlreader-0.1 (2008-01-25)
  * first public release

## Related links
* [LibXML2](http://xmlsoft.org)
* [DotGNU XmlReader](http://dotgnu.org/pnetlib-doc/System/Xml/XmlReader.html)

## Example
Below is a fairly simple example demonstrating how you extract information 
from an XML document using an XmlReader. It prints each element along with its 
attributes.

    #! /usr/bin/env lua
    require('xmlreader')

    local example_xml = [[
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <library>
      <book id='1'>
        <title>Green Eggs and Ham</title>
        <author>Dr. Seuss</author>
      </book>
      <book id='2'>
        <title>Where the Wild Things Are</title>
        <author>Maurice Sendak</author>
      </book>
    </library>
    ]]

    local r = assert(xmlreader.from_string(example_xml))

    while (r:read()) do
      local leadingws = ('    '):rep(r:depth())
      if (r:node_type() == 'element') then
        io.write(('%s%s:'):format(leadingws, r:name()))
        while (r:move_to_next_attribute()) do
          io.write((' %s=%q'):format(r:name(), r:value()))
        end
        io.write('\n')
      end
    end

When executed, this would output:

    library:
        book: id="1"
            title:
            author:
        book: id="2"
            title:
            author:

## License
lua-xmlreader is distributed under the MIT license.

    Copyright (c) 2008 A.S. Bradbury

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
    obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
    files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
    restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
    copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
    conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
    OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
    WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## Contact
Author: A.S. Bradbury  
Email: <asb@asbradbury.org>  
Homepage: <http://asbradbury.org/>
